* INTRODUCTION

I came to the PC world rather late, in 1999. Being a UNIX person, I
obviously disdained Microsoft, and avoided WIndows as long as possible. I
also had Real Computers to play with At Work, generally UNIX Workstations
and servers, so I also looked down on anything I could actually afford.

However by the time I finally broke down and bought a PC, I was starting
to develop an interest in Linux. When I heard about the possibility of
Dual Boot systems, I decided to go further and load as many different
OS as possible. A second disk made this even more rediculously possible.

At the time this included not only Windows 98 and many Linux Distros,
but BeOS and the three (now more) flavors of BSD (net, open, and free)
and Open SOlaris. I since moved on to WIndows XP, but BeOS is dead,
and my interest in BSD and OpenSolaris has waned, so it's pretty much
just Linux and the odd Windows piece here.

This essay is a journey thru the organization of my systems and the major
steps along the way as well as some of the thoughts behind them. The
two major divisions in my organization are Partition Based and LVM
Based syetems. The LVM system also supports Virualization well, but VMs
can also reside in Partitions.

I will also discuss Installation Methods as well.

* My Systems

My first system was custom built from TCP in Gaithersbug, with the
proviso that all the parts needed to be supported by Linux, or they
would be returnable. It had 64M of memory, and at that time memory was
$1/M. I had two 13G disks at $100 each, a CDROM and a JAZ drive for backup
(I never used it much), a Linux compatible modem, keyboard, mouse, and
a nice 20" monitor which was a bargain at $300. I think I had a 400Mz
Pentium, and an ASUS P3 motherboard, and the whole setup cost me about
$1800. See what I mean about turning up my nose at what I could afford?

My next few computer purchases were Gateway eMachines from Best Buy.
It turns out that you can buy a whole system for about half the component
price when there is a sale if you fill out the stupid rebates.

My next two computers were hand-me-downs from Work. Then a few
motherboards died, so I ended up replacing them along with the CPUs.

I recently bought a really nice motherboard with a Quad AMD that supports
Hardware Virtualization, so I will be writing about that someday.

* Partitioning

I think I told TCP to load Windows into a 1G partition, so I was free
to carve up the rest of the disk. I bought Partition Magic to make
this easier.  It can also resize and move partitions in arbitrary ways,
altho it only seems to do so with the M$ types (FAT, VFAT, NTFS) rather
than Linux ones.

I don't recall how I allocated the partitions, but one thing that carried
over from my days of using Solaris Disk Labels is that I liked my labels
to look simple, lining up on even boundaries of hundreds or thousands of
cylinders. If I wanted a 20G partition, I would allocate 2500 cylinders
(one cylinder (255 heads x 63 sectors x 512 bytes ~ 8G) instead of asking
for 20G and getting random numbers in my labels. You will see this later.

* Booting

Partition Magic also cames with Boot Magic to manage the boot process.
Boot Magic formed my later concept of booting. When enabled, it installs
itself in the MBR, and then chains to the boot code of each partition.

Windows installs it's boot code in both places, and Linux gives you the
option. From now on, assume that every OS writes its boot code into its
own partition rather than the MBR. The sole exception is the Rescue Linux
that exists mostly as a Boot Manager as well as to fix any problems.

it's amazing what you can do once you have a working GRUB on a disk.

Linux used to use LILO more often than GRUB. This doesn't really matter,
but now GRUB is king, and I'd just as soon forget LILO, so I won't mention
it further.

