* Partition Based Linux

Over the years, certain patters emerged. You get four Primary Partitions
total, one of which can be an Extended one containing Logical Partitions.
Most systems (Windows, BSD, SOlaris) only work on Primaries, so Linux ends
up on the Logicals. You get 16 partitions total, but Zero is the whole
disk (/dev/hda). I usually end up with P1, P2, P3, and E4 containing
L5 thru L15.

Whenever I have two disks, I partition them the same, up until the point
where the sizes differ. I always use the last (L15, but sometimes I end
up with less than 15 partitions) as the SWAP space. There is of course
a Rescue Linux, and a common /home that is shared by all Linux distros.

The Rescue Linux and /home usually precede the swap partition. All the
other partitions are usually the same size, usually a multiple of 8G.

Windows often uses P1, altho some systems have a small Diagnostic or
Restore partition on P1, so P2 is Windows. The next partition I usually
use as a VFAT partition so I can shuttle files back and forth bewteen
Windows and Linux. Newer Linx distros can read and write NTFS now, but
the habit remains. P4 is usually Extended, but I have been known to make
P3 be the Extended one and put the Rescue Linux directly on P4.

* Partition Labels

Windows can label its partitions, and Linux uses the E2LABEL program
for that purpose. I initially used the names A1-A15 and B1-B15. Later,
I went to Hex, so that [AB][1-9A-F] would be the regexp matching a
partition label.

Subsequent disks were C, D, etc. So the first character was the Disk
Name, and the second was the Partition Number. A further refinement was
subsituting the Function for the Number. Thus, AS, BH, and CR were the
swap, home, and rescue partitions on disks A, B, and C. Sometimes the
Home partition would be on the same partition as the Rescue Partition,
in which case it was an H partition instead of an R one, because everyone
mounts /home.

* New Disk Types

At the time I reached Disk H I also bought my first SATA drive, so that
became disk S. I have a second which is obviously Disk T. I also bought a
small USB powered drive, a Western Digitital Passport which became Disk P,
and I now have a second, obvsiously Disk Q. I also have a WD USB Mybook,
named Disk K.

I name USB drives by the size, so 1G1 is the first partition on a 1G
stick, and 4G2 is the second one on a 4G stick. If I have another stick
of the same size, I just bump the G to an H, so 1H3 is the third partition
on the second 1G flash drive. Actually, I have been moving away from
partitions on flash drives, using the whole device as a filesystem. So
1J would be the name of the 4th 1G flash drive I own. I so have a few
smaller ones too; they are called 256M and 512M. How original.

Sometimes I break the pattern. My subversion repository is on a 1G drive
with the label SVN.

